Alright so I'm gonna ask you to think
a bit now. Now we haven't really covered
constraining widgets to each other
although it did briefly do it when I
added the button to what we can see on
the screen now so I have a car with this
remember that you can't really break
anything so your challenge is that using
constraints and changing the scale type
of the image change the layout from what
we have now on screen we want to change
to look like this now remember that you
have to delete a constraint before you
can create a new one. So have a play it
get used to the layout designer and see
if you can change the layout to this one
so pause the video here and have a go at
doing that and I'll see you when you get
back in a few minutes all right so
hopefully you managed to achieve they
don't have a good attempt and now
understanding a little bit more about
how the layout designer works so my
solution we're going to start by
changing the constraint so that the top
of the image view is constrained to the
bottom of the button so we'll look over
here now and click on the top circle of
the image view and delete the existing
from straight let me go ahead and do
that delete it and then I want to grab
the constraint click on that on the
image view and drag it over to the
bottom of the button so that the image
view is now constrained to the button
and you can see that helpfully the
blueprint shows the constraints and
provides a visual indication of where
the image view currently is allowed to
fit now the image view itself is
currently a fixed size so to make it
feel the space that it's constrained in
would it go over here now and click on
the in Alliance to change it to match
constraints both vertically and
horizontally so I'm going to click on
that vertically and horizontally and you
can see now that I've changed it to
match constraints the image view is now
a lot larger
now finally the image scout type is
currently set over here to fix X Y and
that's a consequence the image is being
scaled to fill the image view well we
actually want to scale to maintain the
aspect ratio so that it remains round so
the scale type has to be changed to
Center crop so I'm going to click on
undo that send a crop
and finally should also check the
inspector and make sure that all the
margins are correct now for the image
view to be centered in the space the
left and right margins should be equal
and so should the top and bottom margins
so we want to change those all to 8 DB
now currently you can see that today
we've got three out of four other
margins are set to 16 so I'm going to
set them all to 8 all right so that's
actually it so you're probably already
starting to see that this layout
designer is pretty cool and the
constraint system makes it much easier
to place widgets where you want and also
have them remain there relative to the
other widgets on the screen you know if
you've been using the relative layout
for much of your screen designs then you
should consider the relative layout is
pretty much dead now now there's still a
place for the linear layout for
simplicity and we will be looking at
that later in the course but for just
about everything else the new constraint
layout is a heck of a lot easier to use.
Alright so I'm going to finish this
introduction to creating layouts by
going through the steps needed to
produce the following layout now it
includes many of the kinds of things
that you'll want to do when creating
layouts there's a title constraint
layout at the top of the screen and text
to the right of that you know below the
title was an image and then there are
two buttons at the bottom right of the
screen now the image doesn't really
relate to the text but till you're here
to learn about the layout designer got
to get practice at downloading images
all right so let's have a go at creating
this new layout file and to do that we
need to actually create a new layout
file so if your project pane isn't so
open we may need to expand that and mine
isn't so I'm going to click on that
project to open it and we want to come
down here to layout which of course is
under the res folder we want to right
click on layout select new and select
layout resource file the other thing
that I didn't mention to do that you
should be doing is making sure that
you're in Android view so if by chance
you can't see this easily just come over
here and click on this drop-down and
select Android now I can't do this at
the moment because I've got this pop-up
window open
all right so I'm going to call this
layout no time has gone lay up so I'm
going to type that in there
another phone app so no let's call a app
now you don't need to type the dot XML
extension because Android studio will
provide that for you automatically now
the next thing over here root element
that means the type of layout to create
and currently that defaults to linear
layout now as I've mentioned before
we're going to be looking at linear
layout later but for this exercise we
want to constraint layout so I'm just
going to over type that they're gonna
delete linear layout and they're gonna
start typing constraint layout notice
that when I started typing that Android
Studios drop-down a list of likely
things so the one we want to choose here
is the Android support dot constraint
constraint layout so I'm gonna select
that by double clicking it and in
general it's a good idea to select from
the list when you get a situation like
that to prevent typing errors now
there's lots of other things that we can
actually type and select here but don't
worry about those for now we're gonna be
using those later in the course for now
just click on OK now why are we creating
this layout you want to make sure that
auto connect is enabled using the magnet
button on the designer toolbar now you
can see that in my case it was enabled
so I've just disabled it by clicking it
so I want to click it again and you'll
know that tire and the auto connect is
enabled if there's no solution or no
line over the on top of the magnet and
also if we just move our mouse cursor
over there it actually tells you there's
an option to turn over what I connect
which clearly means that it's on now
auto connect can sometimes get in the
way and cause problems and if you want
to create constraints that it can't work
out you will need to disable it
sometimes but I've turned it on now so
let's see what sort of a job it does of
this layout that we're creating
all right so we're going to shrink the
project pane here to make a bit more
space they will it drag a textview to
the top left of the screen now google of
helpfully categorized the widgets and it
will take you a while to remember where
the common ones are you can now click on
the various categories over in here to
see what they contain but don't try or
don't worry about trying to memorize it
all right now after a while you'll find
that you'll remember the widgets you use
most frequently so this top part
category here all unsurprisingly
contains all the widgets the others at
Google's idea of where things are and
may change now the textview widget
appears in the text category so I'm come
over here and click on text and there's
our textview so I'm going to drag that
to the top left hand corner of the
screen and release it when the vertical
and horizontal lines appear so when I
release this now now that I've got the
horizontal and vertical lines appearing
notice that the in the blueprint that
the textview is now automatically
constrained to the top of left edges of
the layer and we can see confirmation in
the top right hand corner in inspector
that we've got a constraint to the left
and also a constraint at the top now if
in your situation it hasn't created both
constraints then just drag the textview
slightly until you see those guidelines
that I showed you and it should then
work now the auto connect has done that
for us and it's pretty cool when you're
placing the widgets initially it does
work quite well but if it starts
creating constraints that you don't want
then you can turn it off personally I'm
not only turn it off once I placed all
my widgets that way again it's helped
when laying them out to start with but
then I take that control to put the
finishing touches to the layout now keep
in mind that auto connect will only
affect the widget that's currently being
moved so any other widgets in the layout
won't be affected all right so the next
thing we need to add is a box where
users can type their text now whenever
you want a widget to allow data entry
you'll probably want to use one of the
text fields widgets in this case we're
going to use a multi-line text widget
and we can see we've got this multi-line
text over here so we're going to drag
one of these over to the right of the
screen and we're going to place it roughly
lo the textview dragged it over in this
attract a neighbor you can see there's a
good visual representation and a good
indication if you like of weather
constraints will be added just by the
dotted lines very good we can always
change those ladders I'm just going to
leave it for there for now and you can
see now that I've done that I could
strain has automatically been added to
the left and to the right of our
multi-line text so that was auto connect
in action again it's it created the
constraints but to keep in mind it
doesn't always create all the
constraints you want good thing is
though that creating constraints
manually is so easy that it's not really
worth spending too much time trying to
drop the widgets onto the layout exactly
in fact it can get very fiddly to get
this multi-line edit text widget to be
constrained to the text view which is
what we want to do the layout designer
seems to prefer to constrain it to the
left edge of the screen and you can see
in my case it constrained it to the left
and to the right now auto-connect may
have created a top constraint - it
didn't in my case but that may have for
you it really depends on whether you get
the guidelines before dropping the widget
it doesn't always manage to work out
what you want so consider it a nice
feature but make sure you always check
to make sure you have the constraints
that you actually wanted now in this
case I don't want the text field
wandering up the screen it should always
start below the title so the way to do
that is to make sure that there's a
constraint from the top of the text
field to the bottom of the titles text
view so I'm going to drag the top circle
up to the bottom of the title and
obviously you laineebee doing that if
auto-connect didn't do that for you and
obviously it didn't do that to me either
so I'm going to drag it from the top of
the multi-line text to the bottom of the
text view and by the way if it did
create a constraint at the top of the
screen you would have needed to delete
that first by waiting for the red circle
to appear above the constraint handle
but as you saw in my case we didn't have
a top constraint now when working with
these constraint handles it's actually
worth waiting a second once the mouse
pointer is over the circle once you see
the handle flash then you can start
dragging I've had problems if I started
dragging early and it can
up dragging the entire widget rather
than creating a constraint so it is
usually best to wait alright so the next
constraint on the text field is to
anchor it to the right edge of the
layout now that way it can be resized as
the orientation changes or different
sized screens are used now in my case
I've already got it
constrained to the right-hand side but
I'm just going to delete that again
anyway and I'm going to constrain it
again by dragging over to the right edge
of the layout all right so the final
constraint should now be from the left
edge of the text field to the right edge
of the text view so what I'm going to do
is delete that constraint by clicking it
then I'm going to drag from the left
edge of our text field
to the right edge of a text view now to
keep it centered horizontally in its
space we want to use the inspector to
set both the left and right margins to
the same value so I'm going to click on
that to make sure that it's selected and
I'm going to use 16 DP bearing in mind
that because we've created a new layout
the default has been reset back to 8 for
the default margins you could change
that if you wanted to 2:16 the drop down
over here though once I click on that
gives us the most common margin settings
but you can actually type in different
valleys if you want you've seen me do
that in the past but I'm going to select
16 for left and 16 for the right margins
and again as we talked about setting the
value you want in the default margins
Button says having to set each margin
individually the constraints will be
created with the default margin and by
the way I generally create constraints
in the blueprint but you can also drag
the constraint circles in the design if
you prefer that's useful if you're sure
the screen spaces have turned off the
blueprint all right so let's finish this
video here now in the next video we'll
continue on enhancing this layout we're
going to add two buttons to the bottom
right of the layout, so I'll see you in
the next video.